- [Instructor] As with all technology,
there is no silver bullet.
Serverless has some risks that need
to be evaluated before making a jump to it
as a technology choice for your institution.
First and foremost, we need to talk about costs.
Now, workloads in a serverless environment
can actually cause more than running a VM,
even when that VM has those peaks and valleys
that we talked about.
It's hard sometimes to get a true picture
of cost effectiveness in a serverless model
because of this.
Now, designing with serverless may hide
some efficiencies that you can gain from
a cross perspective.
So let's take a look at the example
of where we're running multiple serverless functions
against a single trigger.
Could we achieve the same thing
by fanning that trigger out, and actually reducing
our cost in a traditional VM environment?
Another risk that comes with serverless
is the inability to do proper debugging.
Now, I'm not saying it's impossible,
but it sometimes becomes very difficult to debut operations,
especially when those serverless functions
are running in a cloud environment.
You cannot simply connect to running servers
many times, which makes it difficult
to do real-time debugging against a running process.
Now, when you start chaining serverless functions,
that debugging becomes even more complex.
Because now we have serverless functions
that trigger other functions,
and we now have to figure out how
to get output and debug against multiple functions
at one time.
I often find that logging is the most effective way
to do debugging, which is kind of an old school way
of doing debugging.
But sometimes it's your only choice.
By putting little out statements that say look here,
or I am here, we can get a better indication
of where we're at by reducing the complexity associated
with connecting to debugging.
But of course, every time you're doing that,
you have to trigger a function,
which then costs you more money.
Now, another hard part is testing.
Testing can be a struggle with serverless.
And that's simply because the emulators
from vendors that help aren't an exact replica
of what happens in a real runtime.
In addition, sometimes you
run against serverless technologies
that don't have an emulator at all.
So it's almost impossible to test against them
in a live environment.
It also can be very hard to integration-test
serverless functions, because you have
to be able to run them in your environment,
but that environment isn't something
that you run, it runs in a cloud provider.
So that adds to the complexity
of actually effectively testing it,
and oftentimes, you end up doing mocks around
those serverless functions so that you don't have
to deal with the cloud provider itself.
But of course, those are mocks
and not true tests of the running system as a whole.
Now one of the biggest problems
that I have seen with serverless functions
is this concept of sprawl.
As you start to write more and more functions,
your function base grows.
And as with any growth, individual elements
become harder to control when you're running multiple,
especially when you start interacting with triggers
from the cloud provider or from various technologies,
and chaining events, that sprawl can be almost unimaginable
to deal with when you
first start running serverless functions.